All right, next,
we're gonna open up the Chrome debugger.
And it's really important that we look
at what's happening within our program,
because we are going to first start off
by doing what is referred to as hotspot
optimizations.
Now, hotspot optimizations
are where you just simply look for
the worst offender and
you try to fix that.
Now, this isn't always the best
way to go about things, but
it can just be really easy, low hanging
fruit that is pretty simple to fix, or
it's gonna give you an idea into
how you should change your program.
But often, just fixing the function,
you can just distribute
the problem into many functions.
And then yes,
your new function does look smaller, but
you've just distributed the workload.
So you don't always want to just
simply try to fix every hotspot.
You want to kind of think about
what is the actual problem, and
how can we solve the actual problem and
not just make this one look smaller?
And so a good story about this is Yunong.
If you don't know who Yunong is, great
guy, used to work at Netflix, by the way,
he was on my team, by the way.
And I used to use IntelliJ with Vim
motions and he convinced me to use Vim.
Yeah, Vim, I think that we were in
version 6 back in the day or version 5.
And so he was the catalyst for me using
Vim, changed my life, love Yunong.
And when he got there, he said, Hey,
has anyone actually checked
performance on our node servers?
Because this is at the point where the
website was heavily investing into node,
and no one actually ran
anything on the server.
So he just ran a simple perf on
the server and 50% of the time
in production,
it turns out we were deep merging objects.
Somebody accidentally use lodash deep
merge instead of object dot assign.
And that's the only thing we did.
And so
it instantaneously made everything faster.
So sometimes hotspot optimizations
are absolutely a beautiful thing because
you're like, Look at that.
I'm dumb, that's bad, fix it.
And so they can be really,
really wonderful.
But sometimes they can be misleading.
So just something to always know about.
All right, so we're gonna do the exact
same thing we have been doing.
Make sure you have your log path correct.
Again, you don't want to dirty
any of your previous results.
We're gonna open up our little server, but
this time we're gonna add the inspect flag
so that way we can actually
open up Chrome debugger.
And we're gonna look at both
the performance and memory tab.
If you don't have the performance
tab when you open it up,
you probably aren't on node 20 and you're
probably on an older version of Chrome.
So make sure you are somewhat up to
date and these things should be there.
I think they've been there for
the last six to eight months,
somewhere right around in that timeframe.
For those that don't know
the difference between deep merge and
assign, assign does key level assignment.
So if you had an object that has A,
B, and C, and no matter what is on
the right-hand side of those object keys,
it just simply assigns A, B, C.
The deep merge would go,
Hey, what are you?
You're a string?
Okay, we can assign you over.
You're an object.
What are all of your keys?
You're an array.
Let's go through every
single value of your array.
So it will deeply walk the object and
try to merge it over one by one and
take two different shaped objects and
make them into one,
doing rightmost objects
having highest priority.
And so that's a lot more work than just
simply being like, I'm going to assign
your keys over one object at a time, and
whoever had the last key in wins that key.
So, obviously much more expensive.
And usually deep merge
is done in JavaScript.
Whereas object dot assign is a C++
method for you get the speed of allowing
JavaScript the engine to do the JavaScript
the engine things, not you doing them.
You don't want to do them.
If you can avoid, don't do it.
All right, so I'm going to run
these two things right here.
Awesome.
So I'm gonna take this, wait, actually I
don't even need to take that whole thing.
Really, I just need this inspect flag.
So what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna jump over here.
I'm gonna make sure I just set it
to testing, fix your log path, and
I'm gonna go over to node and
add the inspect flag.
This will just allow the server to
be created and we can attach to it.
Awesome, so there you go.
You get a little extra
information out here.
This does slow down your server, so you
don't really wanna look at the results.
We don't wanna visualize these results
cuz they'll just simply be worse.
Cuz we are inspecting, it's running extra
hooks, it's looking for extra data, so
it's not a big deal.
Second, I'm gonna run the test client.
I'll put a thousand clients on it for now.
Cuz from our tests, it went 31,
36, and then sixty some.
So I saw the failure started to
happen right around 1,000, so
we'll just go with 1,000.
Pretty easy to look at.
So there we go.
Next, I'm going to open
up a Chrome inspector.
So if you don't know,
you can do chrome://inspect.
I'm sure you might try to
do this from VS Code, but
I don't think they have
all the tools in here.
So I'm going to make sure that
this is all zoomed in nicely.
All right, beautiful.
So there you go.
So now we have our
dedicated node debugger.
If you don't know about that,
chrome://inspect works well and
just select the dedicated.
You can't really see this right here.
There you go.
Dedicated dev tools for node.
Easy peasy.
And then you can close this tab.
You don't need it open anymore.
We'll keep our original
measurements still open.
So we're running right now,
it's been running for a while.
And first,
let's start out with the performance tab.
This is pretty great.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to open the performance tab and
I'm gonna just hit record and I'm gonna
let it record for about ten seconds.
You don't need a lot of data in
the performance tab because it doesn't
create a flame graph,
it creates a timeline of what's happening.
So we'll do that, ten seconds and
it's gonna take a second and
it's gonna look like that.
So this is everything
that's been happening.
Every single call going up and down.
I'm sure there's some fudge factor
that they do for speed purposes, but
this is what you get.
You can zoom in and
you can like, right here,
I'm gonna zoom in on this weird block.
Look at that.
For 14 milliseconds,
we were collecting garbage.
So that's not very good.
How many frames do you think were
late because of this one garbage
collection event?
Probably a lot.
If you click in the kind of,
for me, it's dark blue.
I don't know what color it's gonna be for
you.
If you click in the dark blue, it will
just ensure that everything is selected
and then you can back it all the way up so
you have the full view in.
So there we go, I'm not zoomed in at all.
And on this bottom panel, instead of
having summary, look at bottom up.
This is going to organize functions by
name, who's had the most self time.
Now there's always two
times with something.
So there's total time and self time.
Let me explain the difference.
Let's go back down to one of those garbage
collection events because it's actually
really easy to show you
what's happening here.
All right, there you go.
So right now we are in playGame function,
it's 11.2 milliseconds.
But playGame function didn't
really add anything to the time,
because you notice that it has no
like plateaus on playGame itself.
It just has another function on top of it,
update,
which is literally saying it's doing
the exact same amount of time.
This one has its own small
amount of self time.
You can see right, right there.
That's where update was
doing its own execution, and
then garbage collector happened,
which notice that it's flat on the top.
There's nothing else that it's calling.
So this is time that it's running.
So update ran for just a moment, playGame
effectively did not have any self time.
And so that's kind of how you read that.
The flat tops are where the time
is being spent in your program.
Notice we're idle, we're idle for
a half millisecond,
nothing else is running during that time.
We're garbage collecting for
11 milliseconds,
nothing else is running for that time.
We're updating for 0.31 milliseconds.
Nothing else is running at
that time other than update.
So we go all the way back out,
all the way back out.
And so
this is where something cool happens.
Is that we're gonna go and we're gonna
pull this up and we're gonna look at that.
So total time, remember, that's how
much time it appears in this chart.
Self time is how much time is it at
the top of the chart actually executing.
And what do we see?
Well, the first thing I see
is that we're largely idle.
Well, that's not awesome.
That's not what we want to see.
Second, we spent a lot of
time in the update method.
That sucks.
Thirdly, we spent a lot of
time collecting garbage.
Fourth, we got registerDestroyHook,
init, destroy,
playGame, tickRunner,
microtasks, listOnTimeout.
They get smaller and smaller.
They become less and less important.
But right away, the first thing that we
can control I see, is update function.
We know the function.
Why is it taking time?
We can try to go and look at it.
Now, one thing you can do is you can
like double-click on this thing or
double-click on our, sorry, the game.
And it will try to,
it'll put these times out.
I am not convinced these times are correct
because I just somehow doubt that adding
two numbers together takes
a huge portion of the time,
whereas adding these two numbers together
takes almost no portion of the time.
I'm doubting hard right now, okay?
This one's saying that a lot of
time is spent in the for loops.
I've just never really used this as a good
way to gauge what's happening because
again, I just don't trust the numbers.